# Copying Files to LTO Tape Machine

This portion of the documentation covers how to copy files to the machine connected to an LTO tape drive. Additional steps, such as appraisal, are then performed using this machine before the accession can be [written to LTO tape](./lto-tape.md).

The Russell Library's Oral History and Media Unit always save to LTO tape because of the large size of individual files and/or AIPs.

Hargrett and Russell A&D save to LTO tape when:
*   They do not have legal rights (no deed of gift).

*   They have legal rights but it is not likely to be processed soon (saves space on the SAN).

*   For accessions that are ready to process, save to the [SAN storage](./san-storage.md) instead. May also temporarily store small accessions on the SAN until have a critical mass to write to tape.


## 1. Make accession folder

* Create a folder for the accession anywhere on the LTO tape machine. Name the folder with the collection number and [accession number](./accession-number.md) (e.g., rbrl-281_2016-01-er).

* Include the collection number in the folder title so you can tell where the files are from without having to refer back to documentation.

* Skip this step when copying folders that are already organized into accessions (i.e. pre-tape workflow backlog or small accessions saved up on the SAN until have critical mass for tape). Instead, copy the accession folder(s) to the LTO tape machine and then rename them to match the naming convention and delete any preservation and accession documentation. The legacy documentation should be kept on the SAN.

## 2. Copy files

* Copy the files to the accession folder using the [rsync](./rsync.md) command.  For files that came on transfer media, the files from each piece of media should be in their own folder within the accession folder. Name the folder with the [digital media identifier](./digital-media-identifier.md) followed by the media label (e.g., rbrl-281-fd3-001_speeches-2003).

    Copy one folder:     
    `$ rsync -rlptog --exclude '.DS_Store' /path/to/files /path/to/where/saving`

    Copy multiple folders:

    `$ rsync -rlptog --exclude '_DS_Store' /path/to/files1 /path/to/files2 /path/to/where/saving`

* The above commands exclude .DS_Store files, which are system files generated by Mac OS that cause problems with bag validation. It is possible for these files to be re-created if a bag is ever copied into a Mac environment again.

* Note that rsync may fail on very large files. In that case, use the copy command (`cp`) instead.

* If you connected removable media to the machine and do not know the file path, enter `df -h` in the terminal window to see all mounted devices. The file path is in the "Mounted on" column.

* To copy files from a 5.25" floppy disk, first copy files to the SAN [using these instructions](./5-25-floppy-disk.md).


## 3. Add removal sheets

* Download any [removal sheets](./removal-sheets.md) from Google Drive and save in the folder with the files copied from that piece of  media.

## 4. Documentation

* Record the results of the copying in the [preservation documentation](./preservation-documentation.md).
